Jack punted out of bounds inside the short horns, 20 yard line, three consecutive plays, three consecutive kicks.
And Homer Norton said, you better go play baseball.
Jack was killed in World War II.
Let's see.
Marion Pugh.
Yeah, he was just one of those football players that I didn't know much about.
Let's see, are there some faculty members, if all of the teachers you had were back here, are there some that you'd like to thank, and if so, why?
Mr. Tom Leland.
Mr. Leland was just a wonderful person, he really was.
He was very demanding in the class, but
He was very straightforward, very open with you, and just a super person.
And I guess I would just thank him because, as I mentioned, I was able to cram four years into five here.
And I switched over from ag engineering to accounting.
And Mr. Lee was just, you know, the top man all the way.
And I came back here, through here in 1960.
And he had offices on the second floor of Francis Hall.
And I went in to pay my respects to him.
And he said, I can't call your name, but you were somewhere right around the time with Pete Weiner.
And I don't think I had seen that man since 1941.
And yeah, Pete and I studied together and we're good friends.
And Mr. Leland is the one person, I think, of all of them that I had that sticks out and that, yes, I owe a great deal of thanks to.
Maybe I didn't say it as such, but also I guess that visit back here in 1960 was sort of that, but I wasn't thinking in those terms.
Were there some others, though, that you now remember too, warmly?
No, not really.
Back in those days, I really wasn't.
all that good at that.
Get off of the farm and trying to get out.
Two names you've already mentioned.
One is a fellow named O.D.
Butler from Orange, Texas who was a year ahead of you.
Describe him as a student, as a person, fellow student.
He was a very serious student.
Almost a recluse.
Not really, but freshman, I mean a student in the Corps just couldn't quite be a recluse.
But he would go to his room and study.
And then he would go to the meth hall and work.
And then he'd come back to his room and study or go to class or whatever.
He was just a very dedicated student, a very serious student.
but very demanding too on freshman.
He's caught me one time at an inspection, and I hadn't polished the back of my shoes, the heel of the shoes.
Fish Adams, if you don't do that, I wonder what you do after you go to the bathroom.
You mentioned a postmaster named Teague, and I suspect that was Olin.
Olin Teague, yes.
I don't think he was a postmaster.
He worked at the post office.
And he would, he understood the problem of Freisman, and yeah, he would
I assumed that he would help all like he would help me, but Mr. Teague, I don't remember Mr. So-and-so's combination, his box number 148 or whatever, and could you help me?
And he would go and open it up.
Now, physically, he was a comparatively small man?
Oh, yes.
He was a short person, probably shorter than O.D.
Butler.
Did y'all know him then as Tiger?
No, Mr. Teague.
Let's see, Guyon Hall.
What happened at Guyon Hall?
Why was it important?
Well, that was just where everything of importance happened on campus.
Graduation was held there.
Commissioning was held there.
Entertainment programs were held there, all sorts of extra educational programs on campus.
That was just, Guyon Hall was a forerunner for Rudder Theater, Rudder Complex, the MSC, everything.
And it was at the head of military walk.
Do you remember any famous individuals who came to
Guyon?
No, not as such.
Were there some famous visitors that came to the campus while you were here?
You mentioned the President of the United States a while ago.
Yeah, that's the most famous that I remember as such, yes.
Describe that visit.
The world situation was rather
tenuous at the time, unsettled.
And we were, when you had an advance contract, you knew that you might be involved and we were very pleased that the President of the United States would come down here and visit and inspect us.
I don't remember that there was much security, but there must have been a little bit.
I don't remember that there was a
bulletproof car or anything like that.
And I doubt that there was one.
But he was, being in the Corps, we did not see him not walking but being transported, however, from the car to the reviewing stand.
But he was up there and
And I don't think at the review as such that he had anything to say to us.
Where did the review occur?
Kyle Field?
No, no.
Reviewing on the drill field out there in front of the MSC.
Drill field.
Drill field, yeah.
Were you and your buddies aware of his physical limitations at that time?
Not as such, no.
And as I say, I'm sure that we were not in a position to have seen that
at that time.
If we'd been elsewhere we might have, but at that time we were not in a position.
Let's see, now let's think about the typical A&M student in those days.
The typical A&M student, what were their attitudes, their habits, their background and so forth?
What were of
rather meager backgrounds financially because of the era that we were in.
We had the project houses where students could come from the rural areas and bring their own chickens or cows or pigs or something and live.
But those were, numeric wise, those were not as,
large by any means of those who were living in the core dorms.
But, and the person who had an automobile was kind of out of the ordinary.
We had one freshman in our outfit that had a car and
That's the way I went to the Rice football game was in his car and it stopped on the way back then.
But most were just serious young kids trying to get an education and being able to
for a large part, I was, get out of the financial position that our parents were in.
Geographically, where were Aggies from?
Just mostly Texas.
No, but small towns, big cities?
Oh, yeah, small towns.
Small towns.
Except E-Battery from San Antonio.
Oh, we, one of my roommates my freshman year was from Houston, yes.
And there was a,
Two guys from Wichita Falls, I don't remember anybody my freshman year from Dallas.
We had one the next, my sophomore year from Dallas, Dave Fitch.
He was up at North Texas for a good little while.
But most were from the smaller towns.
And in general, they were economically not very blessed.
That's right.
How diverse was the student body in today's definition of the word diverse?
The students today would probably not call us a diverse student body.
Were there some Catholic boys that you knew?
Well, there were some Catholics, I don't know for sure that I knew them, identified them as such.
Were there Jewish students?
Oh, yes.
Pincus Brunus.
And he would say, pour ketchup and say, hereby I christen thee beef.
And what was his name?
Pincus, P-I-N-C-U-S, Brunus, B-R-U-N-E-S, to living in Houston.
Oh, that wasn't a nickname?
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
That's his name.
Real name.
Did y'all have a nickname for him?
Pinky.
One other little incident.
Right across the hall from me, Leldon Beard, Harold Dyke, and Robert Black lived, freshmen.
Robert Black didn't take a bath.
Weldon and Harold don't remember that he ever took a bath.
So between, just before Christmas, out there in between law and prayer, we ganged up on him and gave him a bath.
Hard to give that guy a bath because he was pretty strong.
He came back after Christmas to midterm and then withdrew.
Never came back.
That kind of freshman policing freshman in one context, if you want to say that, or ousting somebody you didn't like or whatever, but anyway.
Did you know some Hispanic students?
Not particularly.
I don't know that there were anything except Caucasian, really.
Did you by chance know any of the Kishi boys?
Over in my home county of Orange, there was a Japanese-American family named Kishi.
No, but there were Japanese-American there.
Tai Kobashi.
From down below Houston, a vegetable truck farmer.
And how was he treated?
Just like anybody else.
Did he have a nickname?
Did y'all give him a nickname?
No, just Ty.
And their vegetable farm is where that Gulf,
Shopping mall, Gulfgate, yeah.
He doesn't raise vegetables anymore.
I don't know whether he's still alive or not.
But we did, I'm sure that there was probably another, Puerto Rican, Reyes and Danny Soto.
that were here, but mostly it was just Texans.
There was one guy from New Jersey, Keith Dahl, D-A-H-L, but he was.
Did he have a nickname?
The students as such, I don't remember very many of them having a nickname.
Yeah, I mentioned Billy Greenwald earlier.
He had a nickname, Gravel Throat.
He had a, I don't know, something.
And he was Gravel Throat and, but O.D.
Butler was just O.D.
and
Oh, yeah.
Let's see, religious activities.
Were there religious organizations on the campus or around the campus then?
Yes, there was a Baptist Student Union and I'm sure there were others, Methodist,
They didn't seem to be quite as active then as I know some of them are right now.
They might have, it might have been also my rebellion too because I was, I didn't get involved in it really in those days.
I guess I kind of hate to say this, but it's the truth.
Two times that I went to church my five years here were to the Catholic Church because my date was Catholic.
DeWare Fieldhouse.
Describe it and what all went on there.
Okay.
Let me go back a little earlier than that.
The other side of DeWare was a fish gym.
wooden structure.
And over there you knew when you were out of bounds because you would hit the wall.
And so when we would come over into DeWare to play the varsity or something, that was a big treat.
But DeWare was the center of all of the athletics and
any of the indoor type intramurals that we had to have.
And in the basement was where all of the dressing rooms were and Sarge and his
supply of towels and soap and stuff like that and the uniforms.
And we would dress in the basement and go up to the main floor for the activities.
And it was a very close environment.
But one night,
Mr. Charlie DeWear Sr.
was there, and I got the privilege of meeting him.
And he was a wonderful gentleman.
The father of Charlie DeWear, Charlie was just a little bit older than me, I don't know, class of 36 or something like that.
But anyway, Mr. Charlie, Charlie DeWear Sr.
was a very fine gentleman, and it was an honor to meet him, and to meet him in DeWear Fieldhouse, too.
Did you and your buddies go to games together at DeWare Fieldhouse, basketball games?
I was on the team most of the time, even though I didn't let her.
But yes, you would go as a unit, essentially.
And for those who were going, it was not...
there was not as much stress on attending basketball games or baseball games as there was on football games.
But football games, you essentially vacated the dormitory.
And, but yeah, most of the time there would be two or three, three or four, whatever, from the same outfit sitting together, yes.
Describe what it was like to go out for basketball in that era, the routine and travel and so forth.
Travel was by automobile.
We went, for instance, when we went to Arkansas to play, we would go to Dallas and play SMU.
and then pick up the referee and drive with him to Fayetteville to play basketball.
Ziggy Sears was later was a renowned baseball umpire, but he was the referee for us most of the time in Fayetteville.
And we picked him up in Dallas and took him up there and then brought him back to Dallas.
But he,
He would not tolerate, we got no advantage from that whatsoever.
But one time up there, we were getting beat pretty badly.
And Dog Dawson would hold Freeburger's, Freeburger played for him.
Arkansas.
Dog would catch his pants and hold him down and he would complain to Ziggy Sear, shut up and get to playing basketball.
I'm refereeing.
But only because they were well ahead would he not call that.
But because he let us have some fun too.
But football, I mean basketball was essentially
a walk-on sport are for those football players that the football coach wanted to get some more physical fitness or agility or whatever might come from it.
And so the basketball coach would have to honor that.
So there were few, if any, basketball scholarships?
I would guess that there were two, maybe.
Sammy Dwyer, and I don't think Woody Varner as captain got any either.
I'm not sure.
Woody might have gotten a partial, but who was the head coach?
Hub McQuillan, and he went from here to TCU, but he was the coach, and Manning Smith coached the freshman and would assist at times with a varsity.
For instance, when
the football team was playing in the Sugar Bowl.
We had no coach here with us, because they had to be over there with him to help as assistants over there for whatever reason.
And, but Coach McClellan left instruction on what all we were to do, and Woody made sure that we did it.
How big a crowd came to home games usually?
Maybe a thousand, two thousand, I don't know, not very large at all.
The band was over there and whatever, that would be on the south side and whatever paid
people would be on the north side, and then the students would fill in around that.
Describe the routine of a typical home football game Saturday.
What time did you all get up, and what did you do, and so forth?
Well, the difference in the routine really started around noon time.
So, you know, we had classes in the morning,
And then if there were a busload of girls or something coming, they would come in, you know, sometime up close to lunchtime.
But you always cleaned up your rooms because you didn't know who might be coming by and visit, so that was extra for you.
And then we would march in to...
as usual, but there would be other people around, parents of somebody, and you tried to really appear good in the military sense in the march-in, but then after meal, that's when the visit and the meeting with people and everything else would start to take place, and that's when people would start
milling around to go to the football game.
And they usually started at 2.30 in the afternoon, no lights, no TV, no nothing like that.
And freshmen would try to get down to the,
field as early as they could so that they could get the best seats that they could in the lower portions of it.
Seniors back up top.
Freshmen were down front.
Now how could a freshman reserve keep that seat and then come back and participate in the march in?
They couldn't.
Oh.
We didn't have all that many march ins.
We just gathered down there, and we would gather by unit mostly.
But the march in for the meal was the main march in as far as I'm concerned and remember mostly.
I don't remember that we marched.
Oh, I'm sure that there were some times when we did march and go through some sort of a reviewing stand there, but that was not the norm.
just gather, and family and everything else.
Were there some football game traditions that you all observed then that have changed?
Nothing other than some of the yells, like rooty-toot-toot, rooty-toot-toot, we're from the institute, you know, rice, things like that.
What was the Baylor yell?
I don't know.
And I've been told that the Gig'em Aggies may have been a spin-off about Gig Those Frogs.
Do you remember the TCU yell?
I understand that it had something to do with Gig Those Frogs.
and that Pinky Downs kind of emphasized the gigum.
That might have been.
Pinky was a little bit before my time.
Let me also go back to Baylor.
I believe it was while I was here that we renewed athletic rivalry with Baylor because of that student that was killed up there at the ball game.
I don't remember exactly how many years, as far as I know, I remember the entire athletic competition between the two schools was nonexistent.
But, and I do not remember going to Baylor to a football game at all.
I do not remember Waco whatsoever.
San Antonio, Houston, Dallas, Fort Worth, and so on, yes, and even Fayetteville, but Baylor, no.
Describe a field, a court trip.
You would try to take off on Friday as soon as you could.
Forget Saturday.
And one that I remember specifically going to San Antonio, I don't remember the exact game, but it was in the fall of 40.
And I don't know who we were playing, but there was some friend that had a, from San Antonio,
And we went through Austin and stopped on the drag, showed off our boots and everything else over there, and then went on to San Antonio.
I don't know how many spent the night that night at his house, but we essentially took turns sleeping.
And then,
Saturday morning assemble downtown.
I don't remember the exact location but gather down there and by 9 or 9.30 something like that and start forming into organizations and probably around 10 o'clock start your march for the parade and as soon as you got back to the
rendezvous area would be dismissed and you were free to go your own way for lunch and then assemble at the ball game.
And that weekend, I did not take off my senior boots.
And I had to have it as either two or three freshmen when I got back there to get those boots off.
And I never did that again like that.
That was the same type of thing would hold true in Austin.
As I said, I don't remember Waco at all.
I know it was true in Houston.
I think I could take you to the place where we would congregate, meet.
In Fort Worth and Dallas.
And then the same type in Fort Worth and Dallas.
Now my brother, brother just older than me, marched in Waco.
and got his heel of his shoe caught in urban tracks, streetcar tracks, and lost the heel of his shoe.
So based on that, I guess that the rivalry had started before I came down here, but I remember some things about it.
Do you remember any negative experiences of court trips, or were they all pretty good?
They were all pretty good.
We were treated very respectfully in most places.
Oh, you know, there would be some cat calling here and there, like over in Austin, but no, the population as such treated us very well.
And for those who went out at night and caroused a little bit, the cops were very, as I understood it, were helpful to them and not,
Not like, because it was not like, say, the UTOU situation in Dallas at all.
Describe hitchhiking as an Aggie.
Oh, yeah.
Well, we would start out at Eastgate, and you had a
depending upon when you arrived, was your order of rank out there.
There was no rank by class.
The first one there was number one, and the second one there was number two, regardless of whether they were freshmen or seniors.
And whoever the number one and two guys were, usually both of them, would stand out by the edge of the road.
And there was also a place in Bryan that headed north.